And finally, let's talk about Booleans.
So Booleans, there's two of them,
you got your true, and you got your false,
those are the only two Booleans.
And so here we defined,
should we go fast to be true, and
should we go slow to be false.
If you want you can use as to
convert between a Boolean and
u8, because behind the scenes
Boolean is just a u8 that's
kinda the smallest thing that
hardware will let you do.
Theoretically, you can represent
a Boolean as just a bit,
but there isn't any hardware that I'm
aware of, that actually has precision
that's small, usually the smallest
storage size they have is a byte.
You could do something fancier if you
wanna actually only take up a bit.
So true will evaluate to 1,
and false will value to 0,
because that's basically
how it stores them.
True is 1 and false is 0 at runtime.
There's also double equals in Rust,
which is a way to compare things.
Of note, double equals is what's
known as structural equality,
which is to say that if I were
to put two collections here and
compare that with double equals, Rust
would actually go through normally and
actually compare all the contents
of both of those collections.
It wouldn't be reference equality you
might be used to in some languages.
Also worth noting that this double equals
is really the only equals you've got in
Rust, there is no triple equals.
So always use double equals,
because that's the only one there is and
it's probably gonna do what you want.
Okay, let's talk about conditionals
briefly because these use Booleans.
So here we have an if conditional, so
I say if cats greater than 1,
println multiple cats.
We can also throw an else on there,
and say need more cats.
That's totally valid.
Of note, compared to a lot of
languages with similar syntax in Rust,
you do not need parentheses around this,
you can leave them off.
But, you do always need the curly braces.
So I know in a lot of languages
you can say, if parentheses and
then leave off the curly braces, Rust is
not having that, in Rust, you always have
to have the curly braces, which I
think is a good decision personally.
Also of note, this condition right here,
this cats greater than 1,
this thing has to be a Boolean.
There's no truthiness in Rust, this
can't be a number, it can't be a string,
it can't be anything.
If this is not exactly a Boolean value,
you'll get an error from the compiler.
Fortunately, using double equals you
can always pretty easily get something
into a Boolean if that's what you want.
You can also do else if,
so, else if in Rust is basically exactly
the same as it is a lot of languages.
And, what to take a brief detour here and
talk about statements and expressions.
So an expression in Rust,
is something that evaluates to a value.
So for example, here's an expression,
cats is greater than 1000.
That's an expression, because that will
evaluate to either true, or false.
That's the value.
This also breaks down
into sub expressions,
like cats itself is an expression,
and 1000 itself is an expression.
Each of those they evaluate to a value,
so they are expressions.
So both of them individually
are expressions, and
also the entire thing with them
put together is an expression.
Similarly, with a function call,
we can say okay, this is an expression,
this is an expression, this whole
function call is an expression, and
the entire thing there is an expression.
All of these are expressions,
they're things that evaluate to a value.
A statement on the other hand,
does not evaluate to a value.
So, the canonical example of this we've
been using are our calls to println,
this does not evaluate to any
particularly useful value, so
there's a semicolon at the end,
which kinda is a good clue that.
So, a statement, generally speaking
will end with a semicolon.
It's not always true, like conditionals,
like if can be used the statement and
you don't have to put
a semicolon at the end.
But, anytime you do see a semicolon,
you're definitely dealing
with a statement.
Okay, why does this distinction matter?
Well, it matters because in a number of
cases, the Rust compiler sorta gives you
these little conveniences, when you
choose an expression over a statement.
So here's an example, we had this
function earlier, multiply both x and y,
both taking f64, returning an f64.
Then we said return x times y.
And in a language like JavaScript for
example, you need that return keyword.
But in Rust, as long as you wanna
return this expression here,
you can say okay, I don't wanna
have my return statement here,
I wanna just let the compiler infer that.
And the way that this works is basically,
the last expression in a function,
in this case, x times y being our
expression, is automatically returned.
So you don't need to write out return,
you don't need to use the return keyword,
instead, you can just say,
x times y, and that's it.
Both of these functions
are exactly the same.
There's no performance trade off here,
this is just something that
the Rust compiler does for you.
So this is the rule, if a function
ends with an expression rather than
a statement,
it automatically returns that expression.
But of note,
you don't wanna put a semicolon here.
If you put a semicolon,
then this becomes a statement, and
then Rust says, Hey,
I thought you were gonna return something,
how come you didn't return an f64
like I thought you were gonna?
So basically, either say return and semi
colon, or leave off both the return and
the semi colon, and
either of those are gonna be equivalent.
Now I mentioned this
in the context of ifs,
because this is also a thing
that you can do with ifs.
It's not just functions.
So actually, each of these if branches,
follows the same rule as functions do,
which is to say, if you want to,
you can leave off the semicolon here and
have the entire branch, evaluate to
whatever the expression is here.
So here's an example of that.
I can say let message equals, and
then use if basically like a ternary,
if you're familiar with those, where I'm
saying, okay, if cats is greater than 1,
then message will be equal to this
expression right here, multiple cats.
Cats greater thousand, then message will
get set to this expression right here, and
otherwise message will get
set to need more cats.
So here, although each of these
branches does not have a semicolon,
this is an example where I do need
a semicolon at the end there,
which is sorta going with the let,
because lets are statements.
I'm gonna highlight this semicolon
little bit, because yeah, I definitely
forget this all the time whenever
I'm doing this like, let equals if.
And the compiler error messages
uncharacteristically unhelpful.
So, if you're gonna use let equals and if,
definitely don't forget that semicolon.